# COVID-19 TRACKER PHILIPPINES
#### Video Demo: https://youtu.be/fiRHOPed3Pg
#### Description:


CS-50 is a 10-week course which is an introduction to programming. It teaches the fundamentals of programming by introducing programming languages such as C, Python, SQL, etc. For the final project, I focused on web design and development (Weeks 8 to 9) as it was the one that interested me most. And so I created COVID-19 TRACKER PHILIPPINES.
The past few years have been difficult for the whole world because of the COVID-19 pandemic. While other countries are considered recovered already, the Philippines is still recovering from the losses due to it. This website aims to track the country's progress by using real-time data and graphs.

COVID-19 TRACKER PHILIPPINES is a COVID-19 tracker, which was created using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. The data is sourced from APIs online. The website features realtime COVID-19 data, which includes total deaths, confirmed cases, and tests conducted in the Philippines and worldwide. The website has a dark-mode feature, which switches the theme to a darker background for easier evening view. It also has show/hide chart buttons, which reveal tables that I created using Chart JS. As for the design, I made it to look modern and minimalist, so that it is aesthetically pleasing to look at.

In making the project, I first drafted what the project would look like and contain. I then made the HTML and CSS first. For the design, it was fairly easy, as there was BOOTSTRAP to guide me through it all. A challenge I faced was making the design compatible for phones and tablets, as I did not put that into consideration when I started it. In the future, I will make sure that every element in my website should take into consideration how it will look like in mobile and in tablets. After making the design, I needed to find a way to connect the API to my website. I had some kind of a guide for this as the PSET on finance already did that. However, I needed more research on how APIs work and how to put the data on CHART JS. This took me a long time and a lot of trials and errors to figure out. After figuring that out, I made the dark mode feature, which I should have done while designing it. The code was already long at this point and so doing the dark mode feature was extra confusing. I learned to put more comments on my code and also make it as clean as possible, as I have the tendency to make a cluttered code when im tired. Lastly, I made sure that the tables look good on mobile and tablets.


Overall, CS50 helped me understand the basics of coding. It was the key on helping me learn how to search for the codes I want to write. I am now more confident in writing code and continuing my studies, as I have a strong foundation already. COVID-19 TRACKER PHILIPPINES is my first project, and I aim to code something like it, but better, in the future.